if you don't know me and you don't know
my channel I am NOT someone who plays
video games and this is not a video game
review channel but nevertheless I did a
one-hour interview with Tommy Tallarico
a couple weeks ago one really
interesting moment in that interview was
where I talk to about language education
and language education software I am
currently studying Chinese at an
advanced level and I'm acting as a
teacher to my girlfriend my girlfriend
is more at an intermediary level and the
two of us are trying to progress using
Chinese and I'm acutely aware of how
important the gamification of language
education is and that doesn't just mean
taking language education and putting
into the format of a video game on a
console or a computer or a cell phone in
reality when you're creating a textbook
on paper a large part of what you're
doing is the gamification of information
taking information and putting it into a
format that people can use in a game
where people can play as they learn
whether that's you know writing out a
set of instructions for how four
students can sit in a circle and do a
certain procedure of asking questions
for one another whether people take a
ball and throw the ball back and forth
while asking and answer certain
questions the gamification of language
learning is actually a really important
part of language education there was a
time in the past when I was working on
curry in a jib way so those are
languages indigenous to Canada First
Nations languages Native American
languages indigenous languages whatever
you want to say I've worked on many
different languages and many different
language families by the way I've worked
on languages from India Southeast Asia
East Asia indigenous to Canada and yeah
you're up to heard of it anyway whether
the language is that the simplest or
really the most challenging and the
spectrum there is this question of of
gamification I told Tommy Tallarico the
story that when I first arrived at First
Nations University of Canada this is a
small college and Saskatchewan that
teaches
think they both do a jib way and curry
right now one dialect of the Ojibwe
language called Soto for my first week
on campus I was talking to the
professors about this but the challenge
of creating games creating software for
these languages and if we couldn't do
that immediately creating card games so
you know what do you think of card games
you may think of poker but there were
also card games like Pokemon and Magic
the Gathering and for my first
assignment in my first course on curry
as a language I created a game that was
a little bit like Pokemon and also a
little bit like monopoly because there
was a board you moved around the edges
of and one of the reasons I did that I
didn't I didn't know that many words in
the language you had a dictionary and so
on and a type of simple sentence I could
create was something like the bear eats
the chicken or you know maybe the bear
tries to eat the fish but the fish
escapes you make a little bit more of a
complex sentence like that but this
animal tries to eat that animal this was
a type of sentence structure I could do
a type of vocabulary get out of the
addiction I made a game where like
Pokemon different animals in the forest
they're trying to eat each other in
fight with each other but then you as a
player and going around the table and so
on while you're playing this you're
making these sentences now when I was a
kid I played a number of video games
that were not created to be educational
software but nevertheless in the English
language they were an educational
experience for me so if you think of the
original Zork or its immediate prequels
like Zork 2 or 3 those are all games
where you're typing using complete
sentences in English you know my first
language when you were a little kid you
don't know your own language that well
you're reading text on screen probably
all of us have some childhood memories
of learning vocabulary from video games
unfortunately most the vocabulary we
learned is quite worthless in the modern
I learned the names of many types of
medieval weapons like the difference
between a halberd and a BEC Duke or ban
and it's really you know gets it again
to some really obscure and useless but
even even the word plague you know and
how to spell plague correctly
I remember getting that from a video
game when I was a kid so you know there
is tremendous educational potential with
video games there's a certain level of
de-facto educational value that's there
already
even with video games that weren't
created to have educational value and
still for me now at age 41 there's this
challenge even if it's just for my own
education even though I'm not teaching
students in a classroom which I
sometimes do and from me sitting here in
my apartment and teaching my own
girlfriend and credit trying to keep my
girlfriend age how do you deem a PHY
language learning now long story short
in reference to the the Intellivision of
miko the current hardware and software
project Tommy Tallarico is a part of if
the Intellivision offers me better
language education software and better
than what better than what I can get
currently on iphone which is trash
better than what I can get currently on
Android which is trash if I could get
better language education software
whether for adults or child then that
device would be worth $250 to me
whatever the asking price is I don't
know now if it's 200 250 what the final
price can be no questions asked there
was absolutely no doubt in my mind that
the cost of buying that console will be
justified whether I can get that for
Chinese or French and you know in
general with the market I think most
people even if they do buy it with
educational software being in
consideration we admit this is a niche
market then you know once you've already
made that $250 purchase to spend $5.99
on an entertainment game on a piece of
software of that kind that's
probably not a big deal for people then
they're gonna buy other kinds of
software and do other kinds of things
with it but I just emphasize it would
not be difficult at all for Tommy
Tallarico in this company in television
to come out with educational software
that's better than the best that
currently exists in the market because
the best that currently exists I think
I've looked at every single piece of
software within this year even for
Chinese French and Greek I looked at
every single piece of supper for Greek I
was working on Greek just about 4 months
ago now all right
so with all this having been said almost
any method of language acquisition will
get results if you do it if you're
motivated to do it and you do it again
and again and again and I say this
because any one of my audience could
point out look the type of applications
you're talking about in a cell phone or
possibly in future on a console they're
tremendously inefficient or limited or
you know they have this or that
disadvantage no matter how steep or
stark the disadvantages are if you're
motivated to do it again and again and
again if you actually put in the time
and effort and do it again again you
will get results
the example popped into my head the
other day you know I'm sometimes tempted
to study language in this kind of way
and I think my thing was other let's say
you had someone who was a real
cheapskate and didn't want to buy the
newspaper in Chinese but every day when
he goes to the grocery store he just
takes his cellphone and he takes a
photograph of you know the top half of
the front cover of the stack of
newspapers right so you know when
newspapers are piled up for sale you
just see a few paragraphs of text let's
say you had someone who every day was
going to go home after buying his
groceries and study the top half of the
front page the newspaper you know right
away you could come up with a whole
bunch of objections both kind of
academic you know linguistic objections
to this method and
pragmatic objections you know to
learning language the way but III think
you have to agree no matter how badly
flawed this method is if you did that if
if you were motivated to who knows why
you know you'd have to be a certain kind
of compulsive character for some reason
you find it rewarding or you find it
entertaining if you did that every day
day after day after day for 300 days of
course you'd get results of course you'd
gain vocabulary you'd gain familiarity
with sentence structure you probably
would even gain writing ability you'd
approve your ability to write articles
in Chinese not just to read them you
could get miraculous results even though
this is a really bad method so you know
it's true when you take language and you
chop it up and put it into dialogue
boxes and put it in an RPG or an urban
planning game or a life sim game or
whatever you somehow take the language
and and you know put it into the
software that's meant to be entertaining
whether to children or adults there may
be tremendous disadvantages over sitting
alone with a textbook or sitting with
you know teacher and student and
textbook and chalkboard and other
methods like that but most people are
not motivated to be in the classroom for
four hours a day five days a week and
then when they're not in their classroom
to go home and sit alone at their desk
and write out an original essay and read
and do rote memorization and exercises
and then go back to the classroom the
next day for another four hours
that's incredibly rare and with several
different languages I was one of those
people who had that extraordinarily high
level of motivation and commitment with
some languages I had no teacher at all
with Chinese you know I did but by that
same token it's not like I'm on an ego
trip precisely because I know what it's
like to live with that high level of
motivation and commitment I also know
what it's like to lack it I know what
it's like to be without it I know what
it's like for a few months at a time to
just feel like man I'm not motivated to
hit the books forest attack I'm not
motivated through this language this way
or to be on a train or sitting around an
airport and wish I could turn on my
mobile phone or maybe I'm at home sick
I've been I've been sick a lot lately to
be lying in bed sick and think you know
I wish I could I wish I wish I could
engage with this language through
software through a game or what have you
and again the fundamental challenge of
taking language and in rendering it into
a playable form so that language
practice you know become something
engaging and interactive that's actually
a challenge we have as authors when
writing books that's a challenge you
have when standing in front of a
classroom with a piece of chalk and a
chalkboard it's a challenge you have
whether you work with a deck of cards or
assembly code and the C++ and you're
making software on a computer disk drive
so the problem is not so different for a
formal language educator and for a
software developer the difference is the
solution end of rants I don't think
anyone looks at the situation Tommy
Tallarico is in I think he's in an easy
position but yes it was funny for me to
stop and reflect 250 dollars if really
there is educational software on that
system $250 would seem like nothing
because just take a look at how much it
costs to buy a stack of audio CDs from
the Pimsleur corporation it's such a
ripoff just look at the terrible
terrible language education software you
can get from rosetta stone hundreds of
dollars for nothing look at these awful
websites they wanted to sign up for a
membership or how quickly you would burn
through two hundred and fifty dollars on
I taki paying twenty dollars an hour for
a tutor basically over Skype visits
through a website like I talked to you a
paper
pay-per-view website man compared to
going to an actual class with a teacher
in a classroom even when it's run by a
charity we have non-profit charities
here that teach French in Canada two
hundred and fifty dollars relative to
the cost of education is nothing and
what it's worth relative to the cost of
entertainment frankly is a question
doesn't interest me at all